It’s 9:00 a.m.
on a Tuesday morning.
A boat leaves the harbor in Belém,
a city in the north of Brazil.
A traveling overseer
and his wife are on the boat,
heading for a peaceful, rural island
where they will spend the week.
We’re going to the island of Cotijuba.
It’s about an hour away.
There are no cars on the island.
We’ll arrive at the harbor, and there’ll probably
be some friends already waiting for us there.
We’ll get a horse-drawn
or a motorcycle-drawn carriage,
load up our luggage,
and go to where we’ll be staying for the week.
The generosity of the friends is incredible.
They can’t do enough for us.
They’ve been preparing
to receive us for the last six months
—we can really feel that.
They don’t give us just anything;
they give us their best.
You notice that often the friends don’t have
very much financially—they really don’t.
But they prepare things for us
to eat or give us somewhere to stay
—things that sometimes they don’t have
for themselves during their day-to-day life.
You just have to love them.
Everything we do
doesn’t compare to what they do for us.
On Tuesday, after lunch, the circuit overseer
starts analyzing
the congregation records with the elders.
Also, that evening,
he delivers his first talk.
The friends really look forward to this.
They go through so much in life
and this makes them feel looked after.
One of the things that I always make
an effort to do is encourage the friends.
That’s the key.
I think the friends
already suffer a lot in this world.
I try to help the sisters
and the brothers
feel as comfortable as possible around me.
After that, every morning  and every afternoon
the couple goes out with the congregation
in the preaching work,
on return visits, and Bible studies.
You have to cover
a large area because it’s a big island.
So you have lunch in one area,
then you go to one end
of the island for a Bible study,
then to the other end for a shepherding call.
And don’t forget
that the transportation available here
is quite precarious
and it isn’t always available when you need it.
After a busy morning in the ministry,
lunch is at a loving family’s home.
And of course, local dishes are a must!
We’ve arrived for lunch.
Look at how many delicious things there are
—all traditional food.
This is maniçoba,
a delicious local dish.
And these are white beans—really tasty.
What else do we have here?
Caruru—a dish made
from okra and shrimp—full of flavor too.
The couple’s week is full of activities
with an early start every morning,
but they never forget
to feed themselves spiritually too.
While my husband is at the meeting
with the ministerial servants and elders,
I make the most of my time
by doing my personal study.
And then I tidy up a bit before he arrives.
Months before the visit,
we start looking forward
to the circuit overseer’s arrival
because we need
guidance and encouragement.
That’s why the visit is really good for us,
for all the members of the congregation,
and for the circuit overseer.
When we have the pioneer meeting,
we get a better idea of what we need to adjust
and where we need to improve.
And when we have
the meeting again six months later,
you realize how much
you’ve changed and that makes you
really happy and motivates you.
Brothers, it was a pleasure
for my wife and I to visit you this week.
We were really pleased
and encouraged by your good example,
by your zeal, and by your endurance.
Your generosity made us very happy
—the meals,
the care you showed us every day.
We felt your support throughout the visit
—in the mornings,
the afternoons,
on Bible studies—
for all the arrangements that were made.
We thank you from our hearts
for all of your care
and excellent support during our visit.
And so it all begins again.
But this time,
in another congregation in another place.